Cloud-1
Automated deployment of Inception
Rémy Léone rleone@scaleway.com

Summary: Automated deployment of Inception on a remote server.
Version: 9

There is no cloud it’s just someone else’s computer

Contents
I

Introduction

3

II

AI Instructions

4

III

Platform choice

6

IV

Mandatory part

7

V

Focus points

9

VI

Submission and peer-evaluation

10

2

Chapter I
Introduction
This topic is inspired by the subject Inception. The goal is to deploy your site and the
necessary docker infrastructure on an instance provided by a cloud provider.
In this version, each process will have its container. You CANNOT deploy the same
images from Inception and be done with it ;) You can of course get the source of the
website (Your WordPress blog for instance), but you have to deploy it using a container
per process and automation.
Automation is essential here. The stages of deployment must be automated by a tool
of your choice (We suggest Ansible).
This complete web server must be able to run several services in parallel, such as
WordPress, phpMyAdmin and a database.

3

Chapter II
AI Instructions
● Context
AI is now a powerful coding partner — alongside your peers — for tackling large and
demanding projects. You will guide it through both technical and non-technical aspects
of your work.
AI tools can boost your efficiency and improve the quality of your output, but you should
be able to dive deep into any part of the project without relying on them.
Your AI partner supports you, but you remain fully responsible for making informed
technical decisions and to clearly explain and defend them.

● Main message
☛ Strive for a mature and responsible use of AI.
☛ Never let AI take responsibility for decisions — especially when it lacks awareness
of your goals, constraints, or team dynamics.
☛ Maintain creativity, innovation, and human oversight through active collaboration
with your peers. AI is trained on existing data and rarely generates truly new ideas.
☛ Stay informed about emerging trends and be ready to adapt to new concepts and
technologies.

● Learner rules:
• Maintain intellectual leadership over your projects and make your own informed
decisions.
• Prioritise the collective intelligence of your team and peers.
• Actively stay informed about the ongoing evolution of AI technologies.

4

Cloud-1

Automated deployment of Inception

● Phase outcomes:
• AI engineering skills.
• Increased efficiency.
• Greater reliability and quality.
• A pioneering mindset.

● Comments and examples:
• Your peers can identify trade-offs, question assumptions, and help you improve. The
first answer from an AI might not be the best — it may lack efficiency, security, or
real added value. Now more than ever, you should rely on your peers.
• AI can make you faster, but your peers make you better. Collaboration, discussion,
and mutual challenge are key to success.
• Be transparent about how AI was used in your projects, and clearly identify what
was generated by AI tools.
✓ Good practice:
I asked AI to help generate unit tests for my API. I reviewed them with my teammate,
and we adjusted them for edge cases. It saved time, and we both learned something
new.
✗ Bad practice:
I had AI generate the entire architecture of my project. It “works,” but when I’m asked
to explain design decisions during the peer review or in front from of a customer, I
cannot. I lose credibility and I fail.

5

Chapter III
Platform choice
42 does not provide the servers needed to run your application. All your code will need
to be hosted on servers outside the school, which you will need to procure (and pay for)
on your own.
This project requires access to cloud resources. Several options are available depending
on your needs and available opportunities.
Here are some possibilities:
• Take advantage of free student credits offered by providers like Azure, AWS, GCP
...
• Check if your campus can cover cloud hosting costs with a provider.
We encourage you to explore these solutions to choose the option that best suits your
project.
If you decide to use a provider, you may be billed. Be sure to read
the terms of use and the services you can use with your credits.
Remember to turn off the services you are not using. In short, be
careful, it is YOUR responsibility, we provide you with everything
you need so that this project costs you absolutely nothing.
You are in a REAL work environment, your decisions have REAL
consequences.

6

Chapter IV
Mandatory part
The deployment of your application must be fully automated. We suggest you use Ansible
but you are free to use another tool if you wish. It is imperative to provide a functional
site equivalent to the one obtained with Inception just using your script.
You need to install a simple WordPress site on an instance. You must ensure that:
• Your site can restart automatically if the server is rebooted.
• In case of reboot all the data of the site are preserved (images, user accounts,
articles, ...).
• It is possible to deploy your site on several servers in parallel.
• The script must be able to run automatically, assuming only an Ubuntu 22.04
LTS-like OS with an SSH daemon and Python installed.
• Your applications will run in separate containers that can communicate with each
other (1 process = 1 container)
• Public access to your server must be limited and secure (for example, it is not
possible to connect directly to your database from the internet).
• The services will be the different components of a WordPress to install by yourself.
For example phpMyAdmin, MySQL, ...
• You must have a docker-compose.yml.
• You will need to ensure that your SQL database works with WordPress and phpMyAdmin.
• Your server should be able, when possible, to use TLS.
• You will need to make sure that, depending on the URL requested, your server
redirects to the correct site.
• Only ports 80 (HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), and 22 (SSH) must be accessible from outside. All other ports should be blocked.
• Your Ansible code should be organized into relevant roles for maintainability.

7

Cloud-1

Automated deployment of Inception

• Your Ansible script should be portable and able to deploy the application on a fresh
instance, not only the one you used to develop.
• You may use official Docker images for each service. Optimization of Docker images
is encouraged but not mandatory.
• Your installation code must be idempotent: running it several times must produce
the same working result.
• Your code must NOT contain any hard-coded secrets (for example, a database
password written directly in the code).

8

Chapter V
Focus points
This paragraph is very important, read it carefully, as many times as necessary. If you
have any doubts, ask.
Most providers (AWS or GCP for example) offer a free level of use that will allow this
project to be carried out at a lower cost or even for free.
In any case, YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR STARTING AND STOPPING DEPLOYED SERVICES: if you forget a server or let a task run on a loop, you may exceed
the credits allocated to you and you will have to pay for it.
You will pay particular attention to the size of all the servers and
services you put in place. If you oversize your resources, it will
potentially be expensive, and use up your credits faster. Also,
not all services or server sizes are eligible for free usage levels
offered by providers in general.

The use of third-party services is entirely YOUR responsibility, YOU
will be charged if YOU exceed your free credits. The school cannot
help you in your relations with external suppliers.

Also, pay attention to the code hosted on GitHub or other public
repo: do not leave keys or identifiers lying around.

In short, we are not in a sandbox, these are real resources.

9

Chapter VI
Submission and peer-evaluation
Turn in your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the work inside your repository will be evaluated during the defense. Don’t hesitate to double check the names of
your folders and files to ensure they are correct.
It does not include a bonus part.
We will not pay too much attention to the look of the site, a basic WordPress is
enough. We will tolerate the absence of a memorable domain name, but if you have a
domain name, it is appreciable. Especially when this memorable name allows you to
access your site via HTTPS. There are free domain names providers like:
• DuckDNS
• .tk TLD

If you want to take a new domain name specifically for this exercise,
it will be at your expense.

The student must connect as root using their email address or login
as the root account. Otherwise, the case should be considered as a
cheating attempt and the defense will stop.

10

